Put a large saucepan on a medium heat and add 1 tbsp olive oil.
Add 4 finely chopped bacon rashers and fry for 10 mins until golden and crisp.
Reduce the heat and add the 2 onions, 2 carrots, 2 celery sticks, 2 garlic cloves and the leaves from 2-3 sprigs rosemary, all finely chopped, then fry for 10 mins. Stir the veg often until it softens.
Increase the heat to medium-high, add 500g beef mince and cook stirring for 3-4 mins until the meat is browned all over.
Add 2 tins plum tomatoes, the finely chopped leaves from ¾ small pack basil, 1 tsp dried oregano, 2 bay leaves, 2 tbsp tomato purée, 1 beef stock cube, 1 deseeded and finely chopped red chilli (if using), 125ml red wine and 6 halved cherry tomatoes. Stir with a wooden spoon, breaking up the plum tomatoes.
Bring to the boil, reduce to a gentle simmer and cover with a lid. Cook for 1 hr 15 mins stirring occasionally, until you have a rich, thick sauce.
Add the 75g grated parmesan, check the seasoning and stir.
When the bolognese is nearly finished, cook 400g spaghetti following the pack instructions.
Drain the spaghetti and either, stir into the bolognese sauce, or serve the sauce on top.
Serve with more grated parmesan, the remaining basil leaves and crusty bread, if you like. 
END
Heat the oven to 180C/ 160C fan/ gas 4.
Line the base of a 20cm springform tin by putting a square piece of parchment paper or foil on top of the tin base and then clipping the side on so the paper or foil is trapped and any excess sticks out of the bottom.
For the crust, melt 85g butter in a medium pan.
Stir in the darker biscuit crumbs so the mixture is evenly damp.
Press the mixture into the bottom of the pan.
Melt the remaining butter and stir in the digestive crumbs as before.
Make a layer on top of the first, tamp everything down firmly and bake for 10 minutes.
Cool while preparing the filling.
Increase the oven temperature to fan 220C/ 200C fan/ gas 7.
Whisk the soft cheese with the caster sugar, plain flour and a pinch of salt, and vanilla extract.
Whisk in the eggs and soured cream but don't over-beat.
The batter should be smooth and and very thick.
Divide the batter equally between 6 bowls and colour each one using purple, blue, green, yellow, orange and red.
Brush the sides of the tin with melted butter and put on a baking sheet.
Spoon in the filling, starting with red and then orange, yellow etc.
The mixture should be thick enough to spoon and spread each layer carefully on top of the other.
Bake for 10 minutes.
Reduce oven temperature to 110C/ 90C fan/ gas ¼ and bake for 35-40 minutes more.
If you gently shake the tin, the filling should have a very slight wobble in the centre, if it looks liquid, cook for a little longer and check again.
Turn off the oven and cool with the door very slightly ajar.
Chill the cooled cheesecake until you want to serve it.
Decorate just before serving.
To serve whip the cream until it is thick enough to pipe.
Spoon in the cream and pipe blobs or rosettes on top of the cheesecake.
For rainbow rosettes, using a paint brush make some rainbow stripes of food colour down the inside of a piping bag fitted with a nozzle before spooning in the cream.
END
Heat oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6.
Mix the butter, sugars, egg yolks and vanilla with a wooden spoon until creamy, then mix in the flour in 2 batches.
Stir in the orange zest. Roll the dough into about 22 walnut-size balls and sit on baking sheets.
Bake for 15 mins until golden, then leave to cool.
Meanwhile, mix the icing sugar with enough orange juice to make a thick, runny icing.
Dip each biscuit half into the icing, then straight into the sprinkles.
Dry on a wire rack.
END
Heat the oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6.
Unroll the pastry, cut into six squares and arrange over two baking trays lined with baking parchment.
Use a cutlery knife to score a 1cm border around the edge of each pastry square.
Bake for 15 mins, until puffed up but not cooked through.
While the pastry cooks, make the sauce and prepare your toppings.
Mix the tomato purée, tomato ketchup, oregano and 1 tbsp water.
Grate the cheese and chop any veg or herbs you want to put on top into small pieces.
Set aside.
Remove the pastry from the oven and squash down the middles with the back of a spoon.
Divide the sauce between the pastry squares and spread it out to the puffed-up edges.
Sprinkle with the cheese, then add your toppings.
Bake for another 5-8 mins and serve.
END
Put the flour and a pinch of salt in the food processor.
Turn it on and steadily pour in 150ml of water.
When the dough comes together, cover it in cling film and chill for 20 mins.
Lightly flour your surface and roll the dough into a 25cm circle.
Put the butter in between two pieces of baking parchment and soften it by tapping it with a rolling pin.
Cut the butter in half and repeat the process until the butter is pliable but still cold.
Reshape to the size roughly of a postcard.
Put the butter in the centre of the pastry and fold over the right and left sides of the circle, overlapping in the middle.
Press the dough with your rolling pin to make it longer and then lightly mark into thirds.
Fold the bottom third up to cover the middle third and the top third down.
Seal the dough gently by pressing down on the edges with your rolling pin.
Give the dough a quarter turn.
Roll the dough out to a long rectangle (roughly 18 x 38cm), keeping the edges square and the sides straight.
Mark the dough into thirds again, fold the bottom third up and the top third down.
Seal the edges and give the dough a quarter turn.
Repeat one more time, cover and chill for 20 mins.
Repeat step four twice more, chilling each time.
Chill for one hour before using.
Watch our puff pastry video for a Good Food tutorial.
END
To make the meat sauce, heat 2 tbsp olive oil in a frying pan and cook 750g lean beef mince in two batches for about 10 mins until browned all over.
Finely chop 4 slices of prosciutto from a 90g pack, then stir through the meat mixture.
Pour over 800g passata or half our basic tomato sauce recipe and 200ml hot beef stock.
Add a little grated nutmeg, then season.
Bring up to the boil, then simmer for 30 mins until the sauce looks rich.
Heat oven to 180C/fan/160C/gas 4 and lightly oil an ovenproof dish (about 30 x 20cm).
Spoon one third of the meat sauce into the dish, then cover with some fresh lasagne sheets from a 300g pack.
Drizzle over roughly 130g ready-made or homemade white sauce.
Repeat until you have 3 layers of pasta.
Cover with the remaining 390g white sauce, making sure you can’t see any pasta poking through.
Scatter 125g torn mozzarella over the top.
Arrange the rest of the prosciutto on top.
Bake for 45 mins until the top is bubbling and lightly browned.
END
To make the bolognese, heat the oil in a wide ovenproof pan over a medium heat.
Fry the onion, celery and carrot with some seasoning for 20 mins until soft and lightly golden.
Tip in the beef mince, turn up the heat and fry, stirring regularly, for another 10 mins until the mince browns.
Add the garlic, fry for a minute, then pour in the wine and bubble for a few mins more, scraping the pan to release any bits.
Stir through the purée, bay leaves and tomatoes, with a canful of water.
Simmer for 1½ hrs, covered for the first hour, then remove the lid and bubble until the tomatoes have broken down.
Season with salt, pepper, the sugar and balsamic vinegar.
Tip the pasta shells into a large heatproof bowl with a pinch of salt, and pour over a kettle of boiled water.
Cover and leave to soften for 15-20 mins – they need to retain some firmness so you can fill them. 
Heat the oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 4 and drain the pasta.
Use a fork to mash the mascarpone with the mozzarella, chopped basil, garlic and some black pepper in a bowl.
The bolognese should be a little wetter than you’d like as the pasta shells will absorb some of the liquid as it bakes.
Remove from the heat, giving it a final stir.
Using a teaspoon, fill the pasta shells with some of the mascarpone mixture, pressing the mix in with your index finger.
Nestle the shells into the sauce, filled-side up.
Bake for 20-30 mins until the top is golden and bubbling, and the pasta is tender.
Grate over some parmesan and finish with a few basil leaves.
END
Heat a large saucepan and dry-fry 2 tsp cumin seeds and a pinch of chilli flakes for 1 min, or until they start to jump around the pan and release their aromas.
Scoop out about half with a spoon and set aside.
Add 2 tbsp olive oil, 600g coarsely grated carrots, 140g split red lentils, 1l hot vegetable stock and 125ml milk to the pan and bring to the boil. 
Simmer for 15 mins until the lentils have swollen and softened.
Whizz the soup with a stick blender or in a food processor until smooth (or leave it chunky if you prefer).
Season to taste and finish with a dollop of plain yogurt and a sprinkling of the reserved toasted spices.
Serve with warmed naan breads.
END
Heat the butter in a large saucepan.
Add the spring onions, leek, celery and potato.
Stir and put on the lid.
Sweat for 10 minutes, stirring a couple of times.
Pour in the stock and cook for 10 – 15 minutes until the potato is soft.
Add the spinach and cook for a couple of minutes until wilted.
Use a hand blender to blitz to a smooth soup.
Stir in the crème fraîche.
Reheat and serve.
END
Put the ginger, garlic and four tomatoes into a food processor and blitz until smooth.
Set aside.
Put the potatoes in a large saucepan. Cover with cold water and bring to a simmer over a medium heat.
Cook for 8-10 mins, or until just tender.
Drain and leave to steam dry.
Meanwhile, heat the oil in a large non-stick frying pan over a medium heat.
Add the onions and a large pinch of salt and fry for 15 mins, or until the onions are golden and sticky.
Add the chillies, mustard seeds, ground coriander, turmeric, cumin and garam masala to the pan and fry for another 2 mins.
Tip in the tomato mixture and bring to a gentle simmer, then carefully stir in the potatoes and remaining tomatoes.
Season to taste.
Gently simmer the Bombay potatoes for a few mins until everything is warmed through, then serve topped with the coriander.
END
Heat oven to 180C/160C fan/gas 4.
Line a 12-hole muffin tin with 12 large muffin cases.
In a jug, mix the eggs, yogurt, oil, apple sauce, banana, honey and vanilla.
Tip the remaining ingredients, except the seeds, into a large bowl, add a pinch of salt and mix to combine.
Pour the wet ingredients into the dry and mix briefly until you have a smooth batter – don’t overmix as this will make the muffins heavy.
Divide the batter between the cases.
Sprinkle the muffins with the extra oats and the seeds.
Bake for 25-30 mins until golden and well risen, and a skewer inserted into the centre of a muffin comes out clean.
Remove from the oven, transfer to a wire rack and leave to cool.
Can be stored in a sealed container for up to 3 days.
END
Slice the banana into your blender or food processor and add the berries of your choice.
Whizz until smooth.
With the blades whirring, pour in juice or water to make the consistency you like.
Toss a few extra fruits on top, drizzle with honey and serve.
END
Mix together the jerk seasoning, olive oil and lime juice.
Toss the chicken in it and leave to marinate in the fridge for at least 20 mins, or up to 24 hours.
Make the salsa by mixing all the ingredients together with some seasoning – add a chopped red chilli if you like extra heat.
Heat the grill or barbecue to Medium.
Thread the chicken onto 8 metal skewers divided by the yellow peppers – aim for 3 of each per skewer.
Cook for 8 mins each side until cooked through and lightly charred.
Serve with the salsa and rocket leaves.
END
Whisk the chipotle paste with the egg and some seasoning in a jug.
Heat the oil in a large frying pan, add the kale and tomatoes.
Cook until the kale is wilted and the tomatoes have softened, then push everything to the side of the pan.
Pour the beaten egg into the cleared half of the pan and scramble.
Layer everything into the centre of your wrap, topping with the avocado, then wrap up and eat immediately.
END
Thickly slice half the pack of mushrooms.
Heat 2 tsp rapeseed oil in a non-stick pan.
Add the mushrooms, stir briefly then fry with the lid on the pan for 6-8 mins.
Stir in half the tomatoes then cook 1-2 mins more with the lid off until softened.
Beat together the eggs really well with the parsley and oats.
Heat a drop of oil in a large non-stick frying pan.
Pour in a ¼ of the egg mix and fry for 1 min until almost set, flip over as if making a pancake.
Tip from the pan, spread with a quarter of the mustard, spoon a ¼ the filling down the centre and roll up.
Now make a second wrap using another ¼ of the egg mix and filling.
If you're following our Healthy Diet Plan, save the rest for the following day.
END
Heat the oil in a large pan set over a high heat and fry the onion, celery and pepper, stirring occasionally, for 5 mins until starting to soften and colour.
Stir in the spices and rice, then tip in the tomatoes and a can of water.
Stir in the garlic, beans and bouillon.
Bring to a simmer, then cover and cook for 25 mins until the rice is tender and has absorbed most of the liquid.
Keep an eye on the pan towards the end of the cooking time to make sure it doesn’t boil dry – if it starts to catch, add a little more water.
Stir in the parsley and serve hot.
END
Drain a 400g can chickpeas and pat dry with kitchen paper.
Tip into a food processor along with 1 small roughly chopped red onion, 1 garlic clove, handful of flat-leaf parsley, 1 tsp ground cumin, 1 tsp ground coriander, ½ tsp harissa paste or chillli powder, 2 tbsp plain flour and a little salt.
Blend until fairly smooth, then shape into four patties with your hands.
Heat 2 tbsp sunflower oil in a non-stick frying pan, add the burgers, then quickly fry for 3 mins on each side until lightly golden.
Serve with toasted pitta bread, 200g tub tomato salsa and a green salad.
END
Heat oven to 180C/160C fan/gas 4.
For the topping, beat 50g softened butter and 50g light soft brown sugar together until creamy.
Spread over the base and a quarter of the way up the sides of a 20cm round cake tin. Arrange 7 pineapple rings on top (reserving the syrup for later), then place 7 glacé cherries in the centres of the rings.
Place 100g softened butter, 100g golden caster sugar, 100g self-raising flour, 1 tsp baking powder, 1 tsp vanilla extract and 2 eggs in a bowl along with 2 tbsp of the reserved pineapple syrup.
Using an electric whisk, beat to a soft consistency.
Spoon into the tin on top of the pineapple and smooth it out so it’s level.
Bake for 35 mins.
Leave to stand for 5 mins, then turn out onto a plate.
Serve warm with a scoop of ice cream.
END
To make the pastry, rub 225g cold, diced butter into 350g plain flour, then mix in 100g golden caster sugar and a pinch of salt.
Combine the pastry into a ball – don’t add liquid – and knead it briefly.
The dough will be fairly firm, like shortbread dough.
You can use the dough immediately, or chill for later.
Preheat the oven to 200C/gas 6/fan 180C.
Line 18 holes of two 12-hole patty tins, by pressing small walnut-sized balls of pastry into each hole.
Spoon 280g mincemeat into the pies.
Take slightly smaller balls of pastry than before and pat them out between your hands to make round lids, big enough to cover the pies. 
Top the pies with their lids, pressing the edges gently together to seal – you don’t need to seal them with milk or egg as they will stick on their own.
Beat 1 small egg and brush the tops of the pies.
Bake for 20 mins until golden.
Leave to cool in the tin for 5 mins, then remove to a wire rack.
To serve, lightly dust with icing sugar.
They will keep for 3 to 4 days in an airtight container.
END
Heat 1 tbsp olive oil in a large frying pan with a lid and brown 2 chopped chicken breasts for 5-8 mins until golden.
Remove and set aside.
Tip in the 1 diced onion and cook for 3-4 mins until soft.
Add 1 thinly sliced red pepper, 2 crushed garlic cloves, 75g sliced chorizo and 1 tbsp Cajun seasoning, and cook for 5 mins more.
Stir the chicken back in with 250g long grain rice, add the 400g can of tomatoes and 350ml chicken stock.
Cover and simmer for 20-25 mins until the rice is tender.
END
Heat oven to 200C/180C fan/gas 6.
Rub 1 tbsp of the oil over the chicken skin,then season.
Put the potatoes, carrots, onion and broccoli in a small roasting tin with the thyme and bay leaf.
Drizzle over the remaining oil, season well and toss together to coat everything.
Sit the chicken breast on top and roast in the oven for 25-30 mins until it is cooked and the veg are tender.
Remove the chicken, potatoes and broccoli from the roasting tin and set aside while you make the gravy.
Set the tin on the hob over a high heat and add the stock.
Bring to the boil, then simmer for a few mins.
Add the plain flour and stir constantly to remove any lumps.
Once the sauce has thickened, take off the heat.
Slice the chicken breast into 3-4 pieces at an angle.
Serve with the potatoes, broccoli, carrots and onion gravy.
END
Heat oven to 180C/160C fan/gas 4.
Butter a 2lb loaf tin and line the base and sides with baking parchment.
Cream 140g softened butter and 140g caster sugar until light and fluffy, then slowly add 2 beaten large eggs with a little of the 140g flour. 
Fold in the remaining flour, 1 tsp baking powder and 2 mashed bananas.
Pour into the tin and bake for about 30 mins until a skewer comes out clean.
If your cake needs longer then keep it in the oven until it is cooked.
Cool in the tin for 10 mins, then remove to a wire rack.
Mix 50g icing sugar with 2-3 tsp water to make a runny icing. 
Drizzle the icing across the top of the cake and decorate with a handful of banana chips.
END
Put all the dried fruit in a bowl and pour over the brandy.
Leave to soak while you line a 900g loaf tin with cling film.
Melt the chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, then set aside to cool a little.
Whisk the egg yolks with the sugar and honey in a separate bowl until light, then fold into the melted chocolate.
Place the mixture back over the pan of hot water and whisk for a couple of minutes until thickened.
Melt the butter with the cocoa in a pan, leave to cool to room temperature, then whisk into the chocolate mixture.
Whip the cream to soft peaks, then fold that into the chocolate too.
Finally, fold in the fruit and the ginger nuts.
Scrape everything into the prepared loaf tin, then freeze overnight, or for up to one month.
To serve, turn out of the tin and cut into slices using a hot knife.
The parfait is delicious on its own but also works well with a spoonful of crème fraîche.
END
Heat oven to 180C/160C fan/gas 4.
Grease and line the base of two 18cm sandwich tins.
Sieve 175g self-raising flour, 2 tbsp cocoa powder and 1 tsp bicarbonate of soda into a bowl. Add 150g caster sugar and mix well.
Make a well in the centre and add 2 tbsp golden syrup, 2 lightly beaten large eggs, 150ml sunflower oil and 150ml semi-skimmed milk.
Beat well with an electric whisk until smooth.
Pour the mixture into the two tins and bake for 25-30 mins until risen and firm to the touch.
Remove from oven, leave to cool for 10 mins before turning out onto a cooling rack.
To make your butter icing, place 100g unsalted butter in a bowl and beat until soft.
Gradually sieve and beat in 225g icing sugar and 40g cocoa powder then add enough milk to make the icing fluffy and spreadable – around 2 ½ tbsp.
Sandwich the two cakes together with the butter icing and cover the sides and the top of the cake with more butter icing.
END
Position an oven shelf in the middle of the oven.
Heat the oven to 180C/ 160C fan/ gas 4.
Line the base of a 23cm springform cake tin by putting a square piece of parchment paper or foil on top of the tin base and then clipping the side on so the paper or foil is trapped and any excess sticks out of the bottom.
For the crust, melt 85g butter in a medium pan.
Stir in 140g digestive biscuit crumbs and 1 tbsp golden caster or granulated sugar so the mixture is evenly moistened. 
Press the mixture into the bottom of the pan and bake for 10 minutes.
Cool on a wire rack while preparing the filling.
For the filling, increase the oven temperature to fan 220C/ 200C fan/ gas 7.
In a table top mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat 900g full-fat soft cheese at medium-low speed until creamy, about 2 minutes.
With the mixer on low, gradually add 250g golden caster sugar, then 3 tbsp plain flour and a pinch of salt, scraping down the sides of the bowl and the paddle twice.
Swap the paddle attachment for the whisk.
Continue by adding 1½ tsp vanilla extract, 2 tsp lemon zest and 1½ tsp lemon juice.
Whisk in 3 large eggs and 1 yolk, one at a time, scraping the bowl and whisk at least twice.
Stir a 284ml carton of soured cream until smooth, then measure 200ml (just over ¾ of the carton).
Continue on low speed as you add the measured soured cream (reserve the rest).
Whisk to blend, but don't over-beat.
The batter should be smooth, light and somewhat airy.
Brush the sides of the springform tin with melted butter and put on a baking sheet.
Pour in the filling - if there are any lumps, sink them using a knife - the top should be as smooth as possible.
Bake for 10 minutes.
Reduce oven temperature to 110C/ 90C fan/ gas ¼ and bake for 45 minutes more.
If you gently shake the tin, the filling should have a slight wobble.
Turn off the oven and open the oven door for a cheesecake that's creamy in the centre, or leave it closed if you prefer a drier texture.
Let cool in the oven for 2 hours. The cheesecake may get a slight crack on top as it cools.
Combine the reserved soured cream with a 142ml carton soured cream, 1 tbsp golden caster sugar and 2 tsp lemon juice for the topping.
Spread over the cheesecake right to the edges.
Cover loosely with foil and refrigerate for at least 8 hours or overnight.
Run a round-bladed knife around the sides of the tin to loosen any stuck edges.
Unlock the side, slide the cheesecake off the bottom of the tin onto a plate, then slide the parchment paper out from underneath.
END